Hello and welcome to the final tutorial of this implementation and also step in our journey to the full
world model.
So we already implemented a big part of the training operations and actually we implemented the first
half which consisted of getting the final last function and the cost.
And now that we have it well we're ready to first compute the gradients of this loss with respect to
the weights.
And second of course apply the gradients to update the weights.
And so we're gonna do basically exactly the same as what we adhere.
Meaning following these steps you of course with our new nucleus here for the V.A. either was the callback
label less but now for the engine Arnon we have this different list that we've just computed.
But then it's going to be the same we're going to get the learning rate than the optimizer which will
still be the atom optimizer then we will computed gradients from that same optimizer and then just before
applying the gradient to update the weights we'll have to clip the gradients to avoid exploding gradients.
That's something that we must do here for the R9.
As you saw in the intuition lecturers of the island right remember we have to avoid the problems such
as the vanishing gradient or the exploding regions and that we can do things to the clipping.
So let's do this let's do this final big step of the training operations.
And so now back in our Arnon let's start the same way by checking that we are indeed in training mode
and that training mode we're going to get it again from our HP s hyper parameter container.
And the name of the hyper parameter for that is is training.
So just like for the V.A. itself that HP as that is training equals equals one then we will get that
learning rate get that optimizer compute the gradients and apply them to obey the weights.
So let's do this and let's start by getting the learning rate.
So we're going to do that efficiently because we're going to have a lot of lines of code in common between
our V.A. and our Indian Island.
So for the learning rate it's going to be exactly the same.
We're going to get it this way with the tensor flow variable class.
So I'm copying this and I'm going to basically right here as the first line of this if condition.
But the learning rate this time is going to be obtained directly from again our hyper parameter container
and therefore instead of just bring cell that learning right here we have to put self that HP is that
learning rate.
Now we have the learning rate.
All right then next step the next step is to this time get optimizer and actually it's going to be again
exactly the same as this line of code here you know we take the optimizer we introduce a new object
variable the optimizer and we get it by creating it as an object the Adam optimizer class from the train
module by tensor flow and it's taking as usual one argument the learning rate which we've just created
with the same object variable name self that are.
So we can just copy this and not change anything here for the optimizer but don't worry it's not gonna
be that easy.
Then we'll need to change some things for what's left to code so let's base that and he would go we
have our optimizer great and now next step.
So now the next step which I think again is the same as the next step of the VAB.
Yes indeed.
The next step is to compute the gradient.
So it's good that we do it twice so that you can remember better the process of the training operations
which is very similar from the V to the ion n.
So indeed right now we have to compute the gradients.
And so let's just copy that again.
We need to make a few changes.
You might already guess what they are.
So going by here pasting that here we're not going to call this time the gradients grads but G V S and
that stands for Create and variables because indeed I've prepared the duck for you.
Here it is the duck of the Adam optimizer class.
I'm not sure I showed you this before but it's good that we see it now.
Better later than never once again you have not of the old arguments that you have to input when creating
an object of this class.
So we just input the learning rate argument.
But what's also very interesting is that you get all the duck of all the methods that you can come from
this class and there is the apply gradient method which we will use later on to update the weights.
But the one we're about to use right now is the other one the compute gradient method and this compute
grading method as you can see returns not only the gradients but the list of the gradients and variable
pairs.
And so it was important to call that GV s to remind us that and that's also important because indeed
what we're about to do right afterwards is to clip the gradients and to clip the gradients.
We're going to need both the gradient and the variables of all these pair.
So this time it's better to call that GV.
Yes.
And so here we go GV Yes the list of gradients and virals which are returned by this compute gradient
method of the optimizer object created from the Adam optimizer class by tend to flow.
And the other little change we had to do is of course here the less self that loss was the name of the
less we gave for the V but now for the Indian origin we called that the cost which is exactly the same
cost and thus are just some synonyms of the less error that you have between the predictions and the
target.
So we're just going to replace that by cost.
And here we go.
We have are gradients not only gradients but are gradients and variables.
All right.
So moving on to the next step now you might guess what this next step is I've just mentioned it once
or twice.
The next step is to clip the gradients so as to avoid exploding regions and so we're going to clip that
meaning we're going to keep only some gradients in a certain range and this range is going to be decided
by some parameters in our hyper parameter HP as container.
Usually the range is from minus one to plus one.
You can check that online if you type the clip by value function by tens.
So which we're about to use we will see that the gradients are usually clipped between minus one plus
one here we will clip them between minus graph clip and plus grep clip where graphically is indeed parameter
of our hyper parameters container right.
We can actually see it.
I can show it to you right away.
Remember we have all the values of the hyper parameters and on and values I'll give it to you.
So there should be a greatly parameter here it is.
And actually it is equal to 1.
So exactly what I was just telling you but in case you want to change that you know you don't always
have to clip it between minus 1 and plus one.
You can clip it by another value here thanks to this hyper parameter but indeed by default it is going
to be clipped as common practice between minus 1 and plus 1.
All right so let's do this gradient clipping I'm going to close this and let's introduce a new variable.
So this new variable is going to be of course the new clipped gradients which in English would also
mean capped gradient so we're going to call that kept GV Yes and they're going to be the same genius
here but without the ones being outside of the range so kept CBS equals.
And now remember that Jesus is actually a list of several gradients and variables.
And so in order to get the capped gradients for all the variables in that list.
Well we'll have to do a full loop meaning we'll return again these kept Jesus in the same list of the
same number of elements but for this since we're going to clip each one of the gradients in that list.
Well we have to recreate that list again by doing a full loop within a pair of square brackets.
So that's classic trick to know in Python.
We're going to do a full loop now looping over all the elements in that list of the gradients and variable
pairs.
So speaking of pairs well that's what we need to get for it so I'm going to introduce some parentheses
which will contain the pairs.
And so the first element of the pair is the creation itself which will clip right now thanks to this
clip by value function.
And so speaking of this clip by value function well that's exactly what we need to do right now calling
it.
So I'm calling tensor flow first then from tenth floor I'm calling the clip by value function which
takes an argument first.
What you want to clip by value which are of course the gradient so all meaning all the gradients in
Java.
So we're gonna call each of the gradients in GV as grad so this is going to be the looping variable
in the for loop.
So great.
And then the next two arguments we have to input are the values of course you know the values in the
range inside which want to clip the gradients.
And so as we've just said these values are going to be minus self that HP at a great clip and plus self
that HP has that correctly.
Which are the minus and plus values of this great clip parameter equal to one point zero by default.
All right.
So here we go for the lower bound of the range which is minus self that HP is that grad clip and then
the upper bound.
The range which is the opposite value the plus one that is self that HP is that grad clip.
All right.
Perfect.
Now be careful.
This is the first element of the pair of great and inviolable right.
This element.
So now we have to add the second one which is a.
And so I'm adding coming here and I'm adding the variable which is the other looping variable which
will loop over the second elements of the list NGV is right.
And now speaking of the loop that's exactly what we need to add here.
You know that's how a loop in a pair of square brackets work.
You know when you want to build the list through a loop directly.
And so here we have to add 4 and then are two looping variables.
First one is grad you know this one.
And the second one is of course.
Var.
So this is the first element of the pair in the G.P.S. list.
And this is the second element of the bear in G.P.S. list.
So for Grat for in of course this list.
Yes.
All right.
And then here we go.
We've just kept our credits.
And now now we're ready to apply our gradients.
And we're gonna do that exactly the same way as we did for our VAB.
So I'm going back to our V.A. again and I'm just going to take this line of code.
Copy it.
And just to be efficient or because I'm lazy I'm going to face that again.
And now we're just going to replace the grads here by of course are kept gradients.
Rights are here replacing capped genius.
All right.
And then we have the same global step.
That's what we've introduced here.
Remember if HP yes that is training meaning equals equals one then self.
Global step was created as a tensor flow variable.
All right.
So that's all good.
And then the name is still going to be train step.
So all good.
We have nothing to change here.
And now finally final line of code.
Final line of code of this implementation which once again is going to be exactly the same as what we
did for the V E.
This is going to be this one which will initialize to global variables of the training.
So I'm going to copy this line once again.
Then pasted right here so be careful we have to get out of the if condition.
And congratulations.
You have implemented the engine Arnon so you can save and move on to the next step which is let's see.
Well step 9.
Reinforcement learning.
So this is now that you are going to understand this part with you know the control of playing the action
inside the environment then getting the reward and then reaching the next stage.
So we will see that in detail in this next step.
Step night reinforcement learning you will have an intuition lecture explaining how reinforcement learning
works in general and we'll also implement functions that you can clearly understand what's happening
in this part of the full world model.
So take a break after this big step.
Aides implementing the engine aren't and congrats again.
That was actually a very advanced code section so make sure you take a good break and I'll see you in
step 9 for reinforcement learning.
Until then enjoy.